Title: Postdoctoral Scholar: Data-driven Academic Institutional Effectiveness Research
Date: 2017-05-18
Time: 12:00
Tags: Jobs
Summary: Job: Postdoctoral Scholar in Data-driven Academic Institutional Effectivenesss


# Postdoctoral Scholar in Data-driven Academic Institutional Effectiveness Research  

Data Science Initiative    
University of California, Davis   

We're recruiting a postdoctoral scholar to join the [Data Science Initiative
(DSI)][http://dsi.ucdavis.edu] at the University of California, Davis. A
cross-university entity, the DSI promotes and facilitates data science and
serves as a catalyst for a community of experts from varied domains to push the
envelope of interdisciplinary research.  Researchers at the DSI combine and
leverage existing knowledge to tackle complex problems, develop new tools, and
further academic and research excellence. 

The scholar will work with researchers and administrators at the DSI and across
UC Davis to address novel questions relating to how different aspects of a
university function and how they might be improved.  In collaboration with the
DSI research team, the scholar will be encouraged to frame and pursue questions
for the research in and beyond bibliometrics, altmetrics and scientometrics.
Outcomes of this research are anticipated to impact decisions made within a
broad array of institutions, from teaching and research to administration. 

To accomplish that goal, the scholar will have unprecedented access to both
local educational, research and administrative data along with Elsevier
databases, services and tools. The wealth of data will make this project
attractive to data scientists who want to work on rich, diverse application
areas, institutional policy and effectiveness researchers who want to gain
further expertise in cutting-edge analytics, statistics, machine learning and
data visualization, and data-driven business/organization researchers
interested in institutes of higher education. The successful scholar will be
well poised for a career within or outside of academia. Applicants must have a
PhD in a relevant discipline, experience in high-level programming, and skills
in hands-on data analysis. The ideal candidate will be a strong leader with
excellent interpersonal communication and collaborative skills. Funding is
available for up to 2 years.

For additional details and information on how to submit an online application,
see [Aggie Job Link, Job ID#
826126](https://ucdavis-csm.symplicity.com/students/?mode=form&s=jobs&ss=jobs&id=12f560830ea407bf718b02f537c4efa8).
Candidates applying by _July 24, 2017_, will receive first consideration. The
position will remain open until filled.

